Sangala Studio on a Mac
=======================

Everything here is the Mac version. There is nothing to install: the launcher
fetches the one Python library it needs, the first time you run it.


STARTING IT

1. Unzip this folder anywhere. The Desktop is fine.

2. Double-click "Sangala Studio".

   The first time only, macOS will refuse: it says the file is from an
   unidentified developer, because it arrived over the internet. Right-click
   (or Control-click) "Sangala Studio" instead, choose Open, and click Open in
   the box that appears. macOS remembers, so every time after this a plain
   double-click works.

3. A Terminal window opens and your browser opens the Sangala Studio page.

   That Terminal window IS the program. Leave it be while you work. To stop,
   press Control-C in it, or just close it.

The first run pauses to install the USB library, which needs the internet for
a few seconds. After that it starts straight away and works offline.


KEEPING IT UP TO DATE

Double-click "Update Sangala Studio". It fetches the current page, engine and
Snap! blocks, checks each one is complete before replacing anything, and tells
you if there was nothing new. If a download fails, nothing on your Mac is
changed. Your previous copies are kept alongside, ending in .bak.

It also puts a "Sangala Studio" icon on your Desktop, so you can start the
program without opening this folder. macOS may ask once whether Terminal may
control Finder; that question is only about placing the icon.

After an update, stop the program and start it again, then press Command-R in
the browser to reload the page.


IF YOU HAVE A SILHOUETTE DIE CUTTER

Plug it in, switch it on, and press Connect on the page. It should name the
machine. There is also a smaller test that moves nothing:

       python3 mac_usb_probe.py


IF YOU DO NOT HAVE ONE

The page still runs. Everything except cutting works: drawing, tracing a photo,
the three-dimensional tools, and exporting an STL. Connect will report that no
die cutter was found.


IF IT WILL NOT START

The launcher explains what to do in the Terminal window; the two things it
cannot solve by itself are these.

   The python3 command requires the command line developer tools

       macOS offers to install them. Click Install, wait for it to finish, and
       double-click the launcher again. That is how a Mac gets python3.

   pyusb has no libusb backend

       The launcher installs a library that should prevent this. If you see it
       anyway, please report it - that is worth knowing. To carry on:

           brew install libusb

       and start it again.


BROWSER NOTE

On one Mac this has run on, Chrome would not print at all - not only from
Sangala Studio but from any page - while Safari printed correctly. If printing
does nothing, try Safari before assuming the fault is here.
